## My goals for the first study year 2022-2023

I applied to study at the University of Helsinki because I wanted to study Portuguese language on the highest level. The University of Helsinki is the only Finnish university in which you can have [Portuguese as your major](https://www.helsinki.fi/fi/koulutusohjelmat/kielten-kandiohjelma/opiskelu/opintosuunnat#portugali), so it was a logical choice for me. I applied in consecutive years of 2020, 2021 and 2022 and I finally got in on my third attempt in the quota for non-first-time applicants.

In the beginning I was interested in Portuguese language because [my karate teacher](https://seitokai.eu/) is Portuguese and even though he speaks Finnish, Japanese and English at trainings, I wanted to communicate in Portuguese with him. I have been twice on a combined karate course and holiday in Lisbon, and with my family we have also previously travelled in Madeira and Algarve. During my travels I fell in love with the country, culture, language, food and the Portuguese people and I though learning their language would be a great and welcomed new challenge for me. In summer 2021 I completed the Basic Course 1 in Portuguese at the Open University of Helsinki, which also made me more interested in the Portuguese language.

As to foreign language studies, I am already familiar with studying languages on university level. Previously I have studied four degrees at the University of Jyväskylä. I studied Computer Science and English as my two majors and Spanish, Mathematics, Biology of Physical Activity and Pedagogical Studies for Teachers as my minors. I believe that having already studied another language at the university level is a significant help in my studies in Portuguese.

However, studying now – around fifteen years later – will be challenging for me in another way as I am working full time during my studies, and I have my family that I must take care of. So, it will require planning ahead, compromises, self-management, and good time-management, among other things.

Of the current studies within the bachelor’s program of languages, I am most interested in Portuguese language studies. I want to study Portuguese language, literature, and history during my first year. Thus, Portuguese courses will be my number one priority while I can complete other courses with less effort. In addition to Portuguese, I am interested in intermediate studies in Linguistics. I chose Linguistics as my minor subject because it offers me a chance to combine my previous knowledge in Mathematics and Computer Science with Languages, which really was not possible in my previous studies. Secondly, I am hoping that this minor will help me in preparation for the master’s studies.

## Possibilities after completing my Bachelor's degree

After the bachelor’s degree I would like to continue my studies further either in the [Master’s program of Languages](https://www.helsinki.fi/fi/koulutusohjelmat/kielten-maisteriohjelma) (Ibero-Romance Philology study track) or the [Master’s program in Translation and Interpreting](https://www.helsinki.fi/fi/koulutusohjelmat/kaantamisen-ja-tulkkauksen-maisteriohjelma) (Translation and Interpretation Communication study track) and work as a professional translator in Portuguese, Spanish, English and Finnish in the future.

To get accepted into the latter, I might also need to require the study right for Spanish subject studies. That might cause a slight problem in terms of time management, since I currently do not have the right to study Spanish, and it can only be applied once a year during spring. In addition, less than 10 people will get the right, so I might have to apply to the master’s program in Translation and Interpreting with my previous English studies, since Portuguese cannot be the other language of the pair. Thus, my third master’s option is the [Master’s program in Linguistic Diversity and Digital Humanities](https://www.helsinki.fi/en/degree-programmes/linguistic-diversity-and-digital-humanities-masters-programme) (Language Technology study track) since completion of Linguistics as a minor subject should be enough to get accepted.

My final goal is to achieve third master’s degree. Thus, I established a blog (with my sister who is studying a Doctorate) for following the road to become Triple Master. I will also use it to report my development as a Portuguese language learner. The blog is available in Finnish at https://triplamaisteri.blogspot.com/

